Hey guys welcome back to the course we talked about why having a clear question is really important
in the previous lecture.
But once you've decided on what your main question is What do you do next.
Well you should map out a rough path from beginning to end for your model.
Now this map doesn't have to be perfect because financial modeling isn't about starting with a perfect
solution.
There are always going to be changing it and improving it as you iterate on it.
So what did we do with our lemonade stand model.
Well once we decided on the questions we wanted the answer.
We kind of mapped it out roughly like this.
We started off with foot traffic.
How many people walk by a particular location in a given time period and then from there we looked at
the like we hit that it would actually stop at a food or beverage stand.
They can buy.
They don't stop by a stand next.
Just because they stop doesn't mean they're going to buy right.
So then we looked at the percentage of folks who stop that actually ended up buying.
And next we made the observation that some people bought more than one thing.
Maybe they're buying it for friends or coworkers back at the office.
So once we had all of this we could then look at the top line revenue figures or how many cups are going
to be selling.
From there we were able to take out the cost of goods sold and then finally had Crose profits by structuring
it like this.
It made it easy for us to structure a model logically around the same thing.
For some it might be easier to work backwards.
You may want to start with the profits and then work all the way back up to the traffic assumption.
Either way it paints a clear path for you to follow in terms of your model.
Now this may feel a little weird the first couple of times you're doing this but if you know your space
really well and with some practice of building models all of this is going to get a lot easier.
You're going to get plenty of practice in this course.
Another great side benefit doing this of mapping it out before you actually start playing with spreadsheets
and formulas is that it also forces you to clarify your understanding of your business model.
If you have co-founders and partners do this have every person map it out on their own and then come
back together.
You might be surprised that you're not exactly on the same page.
And one caveat about modeling before we go into the best practices in the next session we can't stress
this enough.
Your ability to build a robust and useful financial model is going to depend on how well you know your
space and how well you understand your particular business model.
The key drivers of it because if you don't know it you're not going to be able to deliver it out.
And the model probably won't be very helpful.
Remember all models are going to take inputs and there's a girl.
There is a saying that says garbage in garbage out.
And that is especially true when it comes to models.
If we had put $20 a cup as our price well we're going to have some really crazy looking profit figures
but it would be very unrealistic.
Right.
All right.
Enough about that in the next session.
Let's talk about the best practices with some examples.
If you follow those recommendations in the next section model building building out your financial models
for whatever you're going to be doing later on it's going to be a lot easier.